---
layout: post
title: Hexo Note
categories:
- Notes
tags:
- blog node
---

Hexo is a blog framework. You write posts in markdown and Hexo generates a static web site for them. By default, Hexo uses [ejs](http://www.embeddedjs.com/) for file template, [Stylus](http://stylus-lang.com/) for CSS styles, and [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) for file content.

## 1 Basic Usage

Use `npm i -g hexo-cli` to install hexo cli.

Use `hexo init folder` to create a new site in the current folder.

Run `hexo server` to see the server is up and running.

To create a new blog, use `hexo new title`.

To create a draft, use `hexo new draft draft-title`.

To serve and test draft, run `hexo server --draft`.

To publish a draft post, run `hexo publish filename`.

To create a web apge, run `hexo new page page-name`. The page is served from `/page-name` url.

Use `hexo generate` to generate a static site in the `public` folder. Deploy the files in the `public` folder to a static web site.

## 2 Hexo Concepts

### 2.1 Template / Layout

Hexo uses **template** to specify the file types. You can use **layout** to define a template. Default layouts include `post` for a blog post, `page` for a web page, and `draft` for a draft post. Draft posts will be placed in the `source/_drafts` folder and will be moved to `source/_posts` when they are published.

A layout is defined by a scaffold file in the `scaffolds` directory. A scaffold file can access placeholders including `layout`, `title` and `date`.

### 2.2 Front-matter

Front matter is a block of YAML or JSON at the begining of the file that contains key-value settings. Common settings include `layout`, `title`, `date`, `updated`, `comments`, `tags`, `categories`, and `permalink`.

Only posts support `tags` and `categories`.

Categories has order and hierarchy. The category order is the order of category list. A later category is a subcategory of its predcessor. Hexo supports multiple category hierarchies using a list of names instead of a single name.

All tags are in the same level therefore the order of list doesn't matter.

### 2.3 Scaffolds

A scaffold is a template that a new file will be made from. The scaffolds are in the `scaffolds` folder in the Hexo project root. You can create default meta data or content in a scaffold.

You can put placeholds in a scaffold. Common placeholds include `{{ title }}`, `{{ date }}` and, `{{ layout }}`. The `layout` is the name of the scaffold.

### 2.4 Tags and Categories

Tags and categories are ways to organize blogs. Tags are defined in an array separated by a comma. For example `tags: [tag1, tag2]`. Clicking one tag will bring all blogs that have the tag.

Categories are a list of arraies. Elements in the same array are sub category of the category in previous position.

### 2.5 Helpers and the Data Folder

Hexo comes with helpers such as `trim`, `titlecase`, `date`, `time`, and etc.

The data folder is a place to store data used by the web site. The files can be in json or yaml syntax. The data can be used by web pages use `site.data.filename.key`.

### 2.6 Tag Plugins

Tag plugins are ported from [Octopress](http://octopress.org/docs/). A tag plugin is a small piece of code that you can insert into a markdown file. Common plugins include `quote`/`blockquote`, `codeblock`, `img`, `youtube`, `post_path`, `post_liink`, and etc. Check the [hexo tag plugins](https://hexo.io/docs/tag-plugins.html) for details.

A useful tag plugin is post excerpt. Use text placed before the `<!-- more -->` tag as an exderpt for the post.

## 3 Customization

### 3.1 Themes

By default, Hexo shipped with a landscape theme. The Hexo web site has a collection of themes. The theme's github repository has information about how to download and use the theme.

To change a theme, change the `theme` value in `_config.yml` file.

To create a new theme, you need to create a `_config.yml` file and the following folders:

* The `layout` folder:  contains the template files that define the styles of your web site. The `layout.ejs` file defines the layout. The `index.ejs` file defines the body that embeded in `layout.ejs` file using `<%- body %>` syntax. For a post layout, create a `post.ejs`. For a page, create a `page.ejs`. You can create layout for tags and categories.
* The `language` folder:  contains i18n files.
* The `scripts` folder: contains JS files that to be loaded by Hexo.
* The `source` folder: CSS and JS files. Files that have a underscore `_` prefix will be ignored by Hexo.

### 3.2 Templates

Hexo has the folowing templates: `index`, `post`, `page`, `archive`, `category`, and `tag`. You use layout to declare page structures. By default, the layout template is used by all other templates. You can specify additional layouts in teh front-matter or disable it.

You can define partials that are shared among templates. Create a `partial` folder in the `layout` folder. Create a partils file such as `header.esj` in the `layout/partial` folder. Then include it in another file using `<%- partial('partial/header') %>`.

You can pass variables into a partial and use those variables inside a partial.

For better performance, use fragment chaching for partials that are unlike to change. 

### 3.3 Variables

Hexo has several global variables that can be used in your files: site, page, config, them, _ (Lodash function), path, url, and env.

A page variable can be accessed using `<%- page.key %>`. Page variables include `title`, `content`, and `date` etc.

### 3.4 Helpers

Helpers are used in templates to help you create conent easily. Helpers cannot be used in source files.

Put content in `<% if (...) { %}>` and `<% } %>` to create the content if the condition is true.

Use `forEach` to loop over a list of elements. For example, content inside `<% site.posts.forEach(funciton(post){ %}>` and `<% }) %>` will be created for each post.

Other helps include search form, table of content, tag cloud, and etc.

### 3.5 i18n

The `language` setting in `_config.yml` support multiple languages. The first one is the default language.

Language files can be YAML or JSON files that are in the `language` folder in the theme. Use `__` or `_p` helpers in templates to get the translated strings. The `__` is for normal usage and the `_p` is for plural strings.

You can set the language of pages in front-matter, or modify the `i18n_dir` setting in `_config.yml` to enable automatic detection as `i18n_dir: :lang` -- this is the default setting.